Process management involves various tasks like creation, scheduling, termination of processes, and a deadlock. Process is a program that is under execution, which is an important part of modern-day operating systems. The OS must allocate resources that enable processes to share and exchange information. It also protects the resources of each process from other methods and allows synchronization among processes.
It is the job of OS to manage all the running processes of the system. It handles operations by performing tasks like process scheduling and such as resource allocation.
The PCB is a full form of Process Control Block. It is a data structure that is maintained by the Operating System for every process. The PCB should be identified by an integer Process ID (PID). It helps you to store all the information required to keep track of all the running processes.
It is also accountable for storing the contents of processor registers. These are saved when the process moves from the running state and then returns back to it. The information is quickly updated in the PCB by the OS as soon as the process makes the state transition.
A process state is a condition of the process at a specific instant of time. It also defines the current position of the process.
There are mainly seven stages of a process which are:
New: The new process is created when a specific program calls from secondary memory/ hard disk to primary memory/ RAM.
Ready: In a ready state, the process should be loaded into the primary memory, which is ready for execution.
Waiting: The process is waiting for the allocation of CPU time and other resources for execution.
Executing: The process is an execution state.
Blocked: It is a time interval when a process is waiting for an event like I/O operations to complete.
Suspended: Suspended state defines the time when a process is ready for execution but has not been placed in the ready queue by OS.
Terminated: Terminated state specifies the time when a process is terminated.
After completing every step, all the resources are used by a process, and memory becomes free.
